docs/index.rst, before:

..
    Copyright (c) 2023 Varun Sharma
    
    SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

.. include:: ../README.rst

Examples
--------

``csv-table``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Using the ``csv-table`` role:

.. csv-table::
    :header: ID,First name,Last name,Birthdate,Added
    :class: sphinx-datatable

    1,Kaden,Labadie,1976-09-21,1970-10-20 12:52:05
    2,Ophelia,Klocko,2018-04-11,1983-10-04 12:02:17
    3,Ariel,Quigley,1990-10-19,2006-10-01 21:27:50
    4,Wilfredo,Kessler,2011-07-07,1985-08-18 01:23:32
    5,Malvina,Littel,1994-04-14,2010-08-06 03:07:54
    6,Ralph,Kassulke,1988-03-02,1977-02-28 13:09:11
    7,Karelle,Koelpin,1990-07-10,2012-12-30 10:01:10
    8,Tyson,Bradtke,1992-10-17,2020-05-28 04:30:24
    9,Micheal,Sporer,1987-06-26,2019-10-30 11:15:57
    10,Sheridan,Sawayn,1999-08-21,2008-07-01 12:22:34
    11,Keon,Tremblay,2004-05-22,1984-09-12 14:26:05
    12,Elisabeth,Stokes,1989-04-01,1995-09-14 11:48:33
    13,Gage,Schinner,1982-12-03,1975-06-17 11:55:43
    14,Erik,Cremin,2013-03-03,1996-09-24 15:14:34
    15,Retha,Spinka,2017-05-25,1982-08-25 00:42:26
    16,Odie,Windler,1993-10-14,1998-08-17 11:46:13
    17,Alexandrea,Fadel,2021-04-26,1984-08-13 23:02:20
    18,Brody,Luettgen,1981-11-02,1990-05-30 14:01:01
    19,Bernita,Stroman,1973-07-24,1981-09-10 21:58:27
    20,Zula,Greenholt,2019-06-07,2020-07-24 13:13:02

.. collapse:: Source code

    .. code-block:: rst

        .. csv-table::
            :header: ID,First name,Last name,Email,Birthdate,Added
            :class: sphinx-datatable

            1,Kaden,Labadie,1976-09-21,1970-10-20 12:52:05
            2,Ophelia,Klocko,2018-04-11,1983-10-04 12:02:17
            3,Ariel,Quigley,1990-10-19,2006-10-01 21:27:50
            4,Wilfredo,Kessler,2011-07-07,1985-08-18 01:23:32
            5,Malvina,Littel,1994-04-14,2010-08-06 03:07:54
            6,Ralph,Kassulke,1988-03-02,1977-02-28 13:09:11
            7,Karelle,Koelpin,1990-07-10,2012-12-30 10:01:10
            8,Tyson,Bradtke,1992-10-17,2020-05-28 04:30:24
            9,Micheal,Sporer,1987-06-26,2019-10-30 11:15:57
            10,Sheridan,Sawayn,1999-08-21,2008-07-01 12:22:34
            11,Keon,Tremblay,2004-05-22,1984-09-12 14:26:05
            12,Elisabeth,Stokes,1989-04-01,1995-09-14 11:48:33
            13,Gage,Schinner,1982-12-03,1975-06-17 11:55:43
            14,Erik,Cremin,2013-03-03,1996-09-24 15:14:34
            15,Retha,Spinka,2017-05-25,1982-08-25 00:42:26
            16,Odie,Windler,1993-10-14,1998-08-17 11:46:13
            17,Alexandrea,Fadel,2021-04-26,1984-08-13 23:02:20
            18,Brody,Luettgen,1981-11-02,1990-05-30 14:01:01
            19,Bernita,Stroman,1973-07-24,1981-09-10 21:58:27
            20,Zula,Greenholt,2019-06-07,2020-07-24 13:13:02

``list-table``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Using the ``list-table`` role:

.. list-table:: Title
    :header-rows: 1
    :class: sphinx-datatable

    * - Heading 1, column 1
      - Heading 1, column 2
      - Heading 1, column 3
    * - Row 1, column 1
      - Row 1, column 2
      - Row 1, column 3
    * - Row 2, column 1
      - Row 2, column 2
      - Row 2, column 3

.. collapse:: Source code

    .. code-block:: rst

        .. list-table:: Title
            :header-rows: 1
            :class: sphinx-datatable

            * - Heading 1, column 1
              - Heading 1, column 2
              - Heading 1, column 3
            * - Row 1, column 1
              - Row 1, column 2
              - Row 1, column 3
            * - Row 2, column 1
              - Row 2, column 2
              - Row 2, column 3

``table``
^^^^^^^^^

Using the ``table`` role:

.. table:: Title
    :class: sphinx-datatable

    =================== =================== ===================
    Heading 1, column 1 Heading 2, column 2 Heading 3, column 3
    =================== =================== ===================
    Row 1, column 1     Row 1, column 2     Row 1, column 3
    Row 1, column 1     Row 2, column 2     Row 2, column 3
    =================== =================== ===================

.. collapse:: Source code

    .. code-block:: rst

        .. table:: Title
            :class: sphinx-datatable

            =================== =================== ===================
            Heading 1, column 1 Heading 2, column 2 Heading 3, column 3
            =================== =================== ===================
            Row 1, column 1     Row 1, column 2     Row 1, column 3
            Row 1, column 1     Row 2, column 2     Row 2, column 3
            =================== =================== ===================

Configuration
-------------

The following configuration options and default values are available:

.. code-block:: python
    :caption: conf.py
    
    # set the version to use for DataTables plugin
    datatables_version = "1.13.4"

    # name of the class to use for tables to enable DataTables
    datatables_class = "sphinx-datatable"

Commit message:

Allow passing custom options to DataTables

docs/index.rst, after:

..
    Copyright (c) 2023 Varun Sharma
    
    SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

.. include:: ../README.rst

Examples
--------

``csv-table``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Using the ``csv-table`` role:

.. csv-table::
    :header: ID,First name,Last name,Birthdate,Added
    :class: sphinx-datatable

    1,Kaden,Labadie,1976-09-21,1970-10-20 12:52:05
    2,Ophelia,Klocko,2018-04-11,1983-10-04 12:02:17
    3,Ariel,Quigley,1990-10-19,2006-10-01 21:27:50
    4,Wilfredo,Kessler,2011-07-07,1985-08-18 01:23:32
    5,Malvina,Littel,1994-04-14,2010-08-06 03:07:54
    6,Ralph,Kassulke,1988-03-02,1977-02-28 13:09:11
    7,Karelle,Koelpin,1990-07-10,2012-12-30 10:01:10
    8,Tyson,Bradtke,1992-10-17,2020-05-28 04:30:24
    9,Micheal,Sporer,1987-06-26,2019-10-30 11:15:57
    10,Sheridan,Sawayn,1999-08-21,2008-07-01 12:22:34
    11,Keon,Tremblay,2004-05-22,1984-09-12 14:26:05
    12,Elisabeth,Stokes,1989-04-01,1995-09-14 11:48:33
    13,Gage,Schinner,1982-12-03,1975-06-17 11:55:43
    14,Erik,Cremin,2013-03-03,1996-09-24 15:14:34
    15,Retha,Spinka,2017-05-25,1982-08-25 00:42:26
    16,Odie,Windler,1993-10-14,1998-08-17 11:46:13
    17,Alexandrea,Fadel,2021-04-26,1984-08-13 23:02:20
    18,Brody,Luettgen,1981-11-02,1990-05-30 14:01:01
    19,Bernita,Stroman,1973-07-24,1981-09-10 21:58:27
    20,Zula,Greenholt,2019-06-07,2020-07-24 13:13:02

.. collapse:: Source code

    .. code-block:: rst

        .. csv-table::
            :header: ID,First name,Last name,Email,Birthdate,Added
            :class: sphinx-datatable

            1,Kaden,Labadie,1976-09-21,1970-10-20 12:52:05
            2,Ophelia,Klocko,2018-04-11,1983-10-04 12:02:17
            3,Ariel,Quigley,1990-10-19,2006-10-01 21:27:50
            4,Wilfredo,Kessler,2011-07-07,1985-08-18 01:23:32
            5,Malvina,Littel,1994-04-14,2010-08-06 03:07:54
            6,Ralph,Kassulke,1988-03-02,1977-02-28 13:09:11
            7,Karelle,Koelpin,1990-07-10,2012-12-30 10:01:10
            8,Tyson,Bradtke,1992-10-17,2020-05-28 04:30:24
            9,Micheal,Sporer,1987-06-26,2019-10-30 11:15:57
            10,Sheridan,Sawayn,1999-08-21,2008-07-01 12:22:34
            11,Keon,Tremblay,2004-05-22,1984-09-12 14:26:05
            12,Elisabeth,Stokes,1989-04-01,1995-09-14 11:48:33
            13,Gage,Schinner,1982-12-03,1975-06-17 11:55:43
            14,Erik,Cremin,2013-03-03,1996-09-24 15:14:34
            15,Retha,Spinka,2017-05-25,1982-08-25 00:42:26
            16,Odie,Windler,1993-10-14,1998-08-17 11:46:13
            17,Alexandrea,Fadel,2021-04-26,1984-08-13 23:02:20
            18,Brody,Luettgen,1981-11-02,1990-05-30 14:01:01
            19,Bernita,Stroman,1973-07-24,1981-09-10 21:58:27
            20,Zula,Greenholt,2019-06-07,2020-07-24 13:13:02

``list-table``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Using the ``list-table`` role:

.. list-table:: Title
    :header-rows: 1
    :class: sphinx-datatable

    * - Heading 1, column 1
      - Heading 1, column 2
      - Heading 1, column 3
    * - Row 1, column 1
      - Row 1, column 2
      - Row 1, column 3
    * - Row 2, column 1
      - Row 2, column 2
      - Row 2, column 3

.. collapse:: Source code

    .. code-block:: rst

        .. list-table:: Title
            :header-rows: 1
            :class: sphinx-datatable

            * - Heading 1, column 1
              - Heading 1, column 2
              - Heading 1, column 3
            * - Row 1, column 1
              - Row 1, column 2
              - Row 1, column 3
            * - Row 2, column 1
              - Row 2, column 2
              - Row 2, column 3

``table``
^^^^^^^^^

Using the ``table`` role:

.. table:: Title
    :class: sphinx-datatable

    =================== =================== ===================
    Heading 1, column 1 Heading 2, column 2 Heading 3, column 3
    =================== =================== ===================
    Row 1, column 1     Row 1, column 2     Row 1, column 3
    Row 1, column 1     Row 2, column 2     Row 2, column 3
    =================== =================== ===================

.. collapse:: Source code

    .. code-block:: rst

        .. table:: Title
            :class: sphinx-datatable

            =================== =================== ===================
            Heading 1, column 1 Heading 2, column 2 Heading 3, column 3
            =================== =================== ===================
            Row 1, column 1     Row 1, column 2     Row 1, column 3
            Row 1, column 1     Row 2, column 2     Row 2, column 3
            =================== =================== ===================

Custom Options
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

DataTables comes with many `options <https://datatables.net/reference/option/>`__.
By default, no options are set.
If you want to change any of them, you can use the `datatables_options` configuration option in `conf.py`.

For example, to set the `internationalization plugin <https://datatables.net/plug-ins/i18n/>`__:

.. code-block:: py

    # in conf.py
    datatables_options = {
        "language": {
            "url": "https://cdn.datatables.net/plug-ins/${datatables_version}/i18n/fr-FR.json"
        }
    }

You can use the special variable `${datatables_version}` to dynamically set the DataTables version in URLs.
